# JavaScript

## Lesson 3 - _`for`_ loop 

### 1. Recall: web pages

- A web page is a text file. It's content is executable by a browser
- Web pages are stored in __web sites__ or generated by __web servers__
- The content of of a web page is normally a mix of __HTML__, __CSS__ and __Javascript__.    
- __HTML__ markup conveying the information
- __CSS__ stylesheet controlling the rendering of the web page content
- __Javascript__ script makes the web page interactive. 
		

### 2. Java script code structure and `for` loop

- Javascript code, called __scripts__, is executed __sequentially__, or line after line.
- It can also repeat certain lines for multiple times, which is called __loop__.
- There can also be two or multiple paths to go and only one way is chosed. It is called __branching__ and will be covered later.  

### 3. `for` loop

__`for`__ statements are used to implement a loop. An example showing it's structure is as follows:

`for(let i = 0; i < 5; i++) {`

`   alert("i = " + i);`

`}`

If we embed this code in a web page and run it, we should see 5 message windows, called __dialogs__, occuring one by one. Or, the code loops for 5 times. 
Each window shows the value of __`i`__ in each of the loop (or repeat), starting from `"i=0"` then `"i=1"`, `"i=2" until `"i=4"` (maximum integer below 5).

See [example_1.htm](example_1.htm) for the complete web page. You should click the buttion to see the dialogs.

In the code, __`i`__ is a __variable__, meaning its values changes when the code is running. Numbers __0__ and __5__ and a literal `"i="` are called __constant__ because they never change.


- __`ctx.fillRect(x, y, w, h);`__ 
- __`ctx.beginPath();ctx.arc(cx,cy,r,0,Math.PI*2,true);ctx.fill();`__
- __`ctx.fillStyle="...";`__
- __`ctx.globalAlpha=n.n;`__

We introduce a few more for drawing the edge of a rectangle or a circle:

- __`ctx.strokeRect(x, y, w, h);`__ drawing the edge of a rectangle with __`(x,y)`__ as the top-left corner and __`w`__, __`h`__ as the width and height.
- __`ctx.beginPath();ctx.arc(cx,cy,r,0,Math.PI*2,true);ctx.stroke();`__ drawing the edge of a circle with __`(cx,cy)`__ as the center and __`r`__ as the radius.
- __`ctx.strokeStyle="...";`__ setting the edging style (color or pattern). You can find the color code in the form of __`#xxxxxx`__ in [Google Color Picker](https://g.co/kgs/LQMmMB).
- __`ctx.lineWidth=n;`__ setting the width of the edge. __`n`__ is the number of pixels for the width.


### 4. `for` loop (continued)

We can use more variables with the `for` loop to implement a more complicated control. For example, the following code manipulates two more variables __`m`__ and __`n`__.

`var m = 0;`

`var n = 1;`

`for(let i = 1; i <= 5; i++) {`

`   m = m + i;`
	
`   n = n * i;`

`   alert("i = " + i + ", m = " + m + ", n = " + n);`

`}`

Run the web page [example_2.htm](example_2.htm) to see the effect.

### 5. practice

- [square and circles](square_water_pool.htm)

### 5. Homework

- Examine and repeat the examples to understand __`for`__ loop .