# JavaScript

## Lesson 1 - JavaScript at a glance

### 1. What is Javascript

- a web programming language
- Javascript code, called as __scripts__, is embedded in __web pages__ and is executed by __browsers__.
- Web pages are stored in, or generated by, __web servers__ all over the Internet.
- A brower is an application on a computer. It retrieves web pages from the Internet and execute it locally.

### 2. Usages of Javascript

Javascript has many applications, but we want to focus only one, _i.e._, __data visualization__. One very popular data visualization website is [D3](http://d3js.org).

### 3. Javascript Canvas API

__API (Application Programming Interface)__ is a list of functions, data structures, and more. It is not code but served as a guidance of how to use the corresponding code library. We can think of it as a user manual. 

The Canvas API is the basis for data visualization through Javascript. It has a lot content but we only focus on a few of the functions.

As you can find in the template fil. We hava a __`<canvas>`__ tag representing a drawing area and a __`ctx`__ variable representing the drawing context, _i.e_, the current setting of color and more during drawing.

In practice, the code we will add uses the following statements:

- __`ctx.fillRect(x, y, w, h);`__ drawing a solid rectangle with __`(x,y)`__ as the top-left corner and __`w`__, __`h`__ as the width and height.
- __`ctx.beginPath();ctx.arc(cx,cy,r,0,Math.PI*2,true);ctx.fill();`__ drawing a solid circle with __`(cx,cy)`__ as the center and __`r`__ as the radius.
- __`ctx.fillStyle="..."`__ setting the filling style (color or pattern). You can find the color code in the form of __`#xxxxxx`__ in [Google Color Picker](https://g.co/kgs/LQMmMB).
- __`ctx.globalAlpha=n.n`__ setting transparency. The value of __`n.n`__ is from 0.0 (totally transparent) to 1.1 (totally opaque).


### 4. Homework

- Repeat the example code in the lesson.
- Choose some exercise pictures and implement them with the API we learn in the lesson.